PART 2: Planting the Seeds

2.1a. What are the values of NodeType and what do they represent? 

The values of NodeType are SCHOOL, PROGRAM, and FACULTY. 
SCHOOL is used to represent the School of Engineering root node, 
PROGRAM represents an engineering department
FACULTY represents an individual professor



2.1b. How might a node know whether it is a leaf? 

A node will know whether it is a leaf by having no children. 
The code does this by checking whether the 'children's list' is empty.



2.1c. What does the height of a node refer to? 

The height of a node is the number of amount of edges in the longest path from the node to a leaf. 
A leaf node would have a height of 0. 



2.1d. What does the depth of a node refer to? 

The depth of a node is used to refer to the number of edges between that node and the root of the tree. 
The root has a depth of 0. 



2.1e. How can you traverse through a tree to find a particular value (i.e., last_name)?

You are able to to recursively check the current node and then search each of the node's children. 
If a node with the requested value is found, it is returned. If the tree is searched 
without a match, None will be returned. 









PART 3: Department Meeting

3.1a. What is the data type of faculty_dict? What are the keys and values? How would you access 
the information for a particular professor? 

faculty_dict is a mapping category. Its keys are professor last names stores as 'str', and its 
values are 'Professor' objects. 



3.1b. What is the data type of program_structure? 

program_structure is a TreeNote data type, which is a custom class data type. 
TreeNode represents the root of the engineering faculty tree. 




3.1c. In the import_faculty() method, what data is stored in the pandas data frame variable "df"? 
What does the lambda function do? 

The lambda function is applied to every row in the DataFrame. For each row, it calls self.add_prof(x, faculty_dict), 
where x is the current professor's row. 'add_prof()' method uses that info to create a Professor object
and add it to the faculty_dict. 









PART 4: Office hours now in session

4.1a. What is the type of self.faculty? What data does it store? 

self.faculty is a dictionary (dict). It stores faculty members using last names as keys 
and Professor objects as their values. Each Professor object contains info like Profesor's 
first name, last name, program, rank, office, and their headshot. 




4.1b. What is the type of self.root? How are we able to access the rest of the tree given only the root? 

self.root is a TreeNode object. It is used to represent the root of the 'tree', which is the School of Engineering. 
We are able to access the rest of the tree since every TreeNode has a children list. 
Starting from the root, following its children, to the program nodes, 
and then follow those nodes' children to reach the faculty nodes.




4.1c. Analyze the draw_tree() method. In what order are the nodes of the tree drawn (i.e., level-order, in-order, pre-order, post-order)?

Nodes are drawn in pre-order. draw_tree() method first draws the current node, then loops through its children and recursively draws
each child's subtree. This means the parent is drawn before its children. 





4.1d. Starting from run(), trace how user_text is updated and passed between methods to display information about the requested faculty member when the Return button is pressed. 
What method does it get passed to? 

In run(), user_text starts as an empty string. As the user types, each letter is added to user_text. 
If backspack is pressed, the last letter is removed. 
When Return is pressed, user_text is cleaned up and passed to the show_info() method: 

self.show_info(user_text.strip().capitalize())

Then user_text is cleared up so the user can type another name. 